.TH ECHO-BATTERY 1 "January 2026" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
echo-battery \- print battery charge percentage from sysfs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B echo-battery
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B echo-battery
prints the current battery charge percentage using Linux sysfs power
supply information from
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0.

The reported percentage is normalized relative to the battery's original
design capacity rather than the current maximum charge, allowing degraded
batteries to still report a meaningful percentage.

If the battery is currently charging, a
.RB ` + '
symbol is appended to the output.

If required battery information files are unavailable or unreadable,
.B echo-battery
silently exits without producing output.

.SH OUTPUT
The output consists of a single line in the following format:

.RS
\fBNN%\fR[\fB+\fR]
.RE

Where:
.TP
.B NN%
Battery percentage (0–100), rounded down.
.TP
.B +
Present only when the battery status is
.BR Charging .

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/capacity
Current battery capacity percentage.
.TP
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/status
Charging state (e.g. Charging, Discharging).
.TP
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/charge_full_design
Original design charge capacity.
.TP
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/charge_full
Current maximum charge capacity.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution or missing battery data.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
No environment variables are used.

.SH EXAMPLES
Display battery percentage:
.RS
.nf
$ echo-battery
87%
.fi
.RE

Display battery percentage while charging:
.RS
.nf
$ echo-battery
42%+
.fi
.RE

.SH NOTES
This utility assumes the battery device is named
.B BAT0.
Systems with differently named battery devices may require modification.

Designed for lightweight usage in status bars, scripts, and window managers.

.SH AUTHOR
Immanuel Dorneich
